# DisasterDatabases
This thesis deals with the issue of searching and selecting heterogeneous disaster databases. The disasters analyzed, are divided into two minor categories according to the cause of their creation: these categories are geophysical and weather-related. Initially, databases containing a lot of data on these disasters had to be identified. Many government agencies and companies provide free access to all users to process their databases and draw useful conclusions. Nine databases were selected and their contents and validity were compared. The criteria primarily concern the complete documentation and completeness of these databases. It was observed that many bases which apparently met the criteria were rejected due to missing records or because they contained outdated data. The nine selected bases were extensively analyzed based on some of their specific features. Then, an additional sorting (discarding) was done in order to select the 5 most complete. Using python pandas these bases were freed from the redundant information they contained and configured based on a specific desired pattern. Using JSON, the database data were presented after the necessary processing had been done in jupyter. The systems used and how they were implemented where needed were extensively analyzed. Five machine learning (ML) classification algorithms were chosen and analyzed extensively by using definitions and examples. In the disaster_Size column of the Global landslide Catalog base, all five were applied in order to compare their effectiveness and to draw conclusions about the time and probability of success of each model.
